When you discussed the cosmos,
maybe the single most intriguing possibility to us as human beings is what other
intelligent life,
if any,
is out there.
And how interesting is that to you because you spent so much time studying the
fundamental particles of the universe itself.
How interested are you in the possibility of other intelligent life forms or
have you just like put that out into the,
it's just so ridiculously unlikely or so far away from us that we're probably
never going to make contact.
So there's this Seti program looking at to see where they can see signals from
listening to civilizations.
The problem there from my perspective is that although they might be out there,
they've got to have a real headstart on us before you receive them and they
might have done so.
But then,
I dunno,
is he actually vi?
He goes to John Who's my Armenian Connie and who looked also for these ring
shaped things and looked at them in a different way from the Polish people.
But um,
we seem to have seen something there.
But we wrote a paper in which we speculated on beings from the previous Ian
communicating with us.
And the advantage there is that you're looking at the really advanced
civilizations,
really very energy.
See billions of years ago that they,
their universe disappeared and then had to come back to a big bank.
State signals could come through somehow or another,
those signals,
Romain.
It's conceivable it,
I agree it's pretty far fetched,
but you know who knows what.
So how many billions of years are,
you're talking about like the big bang 14 billion.
Yes.
But you see that's way,
way at the beginning in a sense.
Or it's three quarters of the way through.
And in another sense it depends on how you draw the picture,
right?
In a sense of interestingness or in the conformal picture.
We are already three quarters of the way through.
So 14 billion to now.
So we have how much content is years.
You see the trouble is it's a cheat to cheat the year count.
It's as much as you like.
It depends on the on,
on something else.
The mass has to fade out.
And how you measure the time it becomes problematic and it's either infinity you
see,
which isn't much use or you might have a different definitions of time,
which depending on what particle you're using,
it's your clocks and things like that.
So are you essentially saying that it's entirely possible that we are the
furthest in terms of our technological achievement and our understanding of the
universe itself?
It's possible that we're at the front of the line.
There might be some other intelligent life forms in the universe,
but they might be behind us.
Well,
they would have been mean.
I'm not saying they got through,
you say,
well maybe they have techniques for getting through,
but that's,
that's a bit hard to imagine.
But um,
maybe information from them,
McGee it through and maybe you mean from the previous els?
Yes.
They might have got through like somehow or another survived.
But it would have to be in the form of photons or something.
Yeah.
No it's not.
I'm talking about ridiculous speculate.
Sure.
In coding information to photons.
Yes.
Wow.
It's conceivable.
I don't want to say that I,
I see it happening or anything,
but it's not under the question that they could develop some technology which
would get information,
which might be them in some sense a across in the form of photons.
But you're not optimistic about current intelligent life somewhere in the
universe.
Not too optimistic.
Just because,
um,
well maybe it took us a long time to get going because the dinosaurs were there
for a while and somebody might've gotten in there earlier and they're different
planets and they could've got there quite ahead of us.
It's,
it's conceivable.
I'm not going to rule it out.
I just not terribly optimistic about it.
No,
I think it's worth doing.
It's worth looking.
Yes,
but it's not something that you're really not sure I'm expecting.
It's not,
it's not so much.
I'd be curious certainly,
but I'm not expecting it,
I guess.
Is it just because of the overall lack of real evidence and it's just not an
attractive thing for you to pursue?
It's quite attractive.
It's short.
You know,
I've just been doing other things and I don't know there's enough to do in the
world.
I had some really come to terms that very hugely,
so I know there's this activity.
I'd be interested to see if any kind of,
you know,
if this,
there was this thing that came past that some people speculated was sent there
by a different intelligence,
which came quite close in our solar system.
Oh,
that was that strange looking,
this trailer shape.
Yes,
that's right.
Yeah.
I mean,
I don't see any real reason to believe it's a alien specific because of the way
it was traveling though was the idea was something that I was curious about it.
See,
people did suggest it might be something sent by an alien civilization waste.
So it's worth,
even if one could make connect with it in some way,
but I don't know.
I guess it's too far away now.
Well,
it's another thing that's so uniquely fascinating for us,
the concept of sale of another,
of another life form out there.
Oh,
sure.
Yeah.